README.md, before:

# dynamodb-fifo-lock-client

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/johnsabath/dynamodb-fifo-lock-client/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=LCDUYI0ISB)](https://codecov.io/gh/johnsabath/dynamodb-fifo-lock-client)

### Status: Experimental

AWS DynamoDB distributed locking client with fencing tokens and FIFO acquisition queuing.

Inspired by:
- [AWS Blog Post: Building Distributed Locks with the DynamoDB Lock Client](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/building-distributed-locks-with-the-dynamodb-lock-client/)
- [Formidable Labs: Distributed Locking](https://formidable.com/blog/2020/distributed-locking/)

## Usage

### Setup
```javascript
import { DynamoDbLockClient } from "dynamodb-fifo-lock-client";
import * as DynamoDbClient from "aws-sdk/clients/dynamodb";

const dynamo = new DynamoDbClient();
const dynamoLockClient = new DynamoDbLockClient(dynamo, "my-dynamo-table-name");
```

### Options
```javascript
const lockOptions = {
  // Arbitrary string identifier
  lockId: "my-lock-identifier",

  // If we acquire the lock, how long does the lease last before expiring?
  // Leases are automatically extended by heartbeats.
  leaseDurationMs: 30000,

  // If we haven't acquired the lock by this point, raise LockAcquisitionTimeout.
  // Optional: defaults to leaseDurationMs
  acquireTimeoutMs: 30000,

  // How often we should reattempt a lock acquisition if it's being held by someone else
  // Optional: defaults to leaseDurationMs / 2
  acquireRetryIntervalMs: 15000,

  // How often heartbeats should be sent to extend the lease on the lock once its been acquired
  // Optional: defaults to leaseDurationMs / 4
  heartbeatIntervalMs: 7500, 
}
```

### Synchronous Lock Holding

Lock will be held until the `doWork` method returns.
```typescript
function doWork(): void {
  syncWork();
}

await dynamoLockClient.executeWithLock(lockOptions, doWork);
```

### Asynchronous Lock Holding

Lock will be held until the Promise returned by `doAsyncWork` resolves or rejects.
```typescript
async function doAsyncWork(): Promise<void> {
  await asyncWork();
}

await dynamoLockClient.executeWithLock(lockOptions, doAsyncWork);
```

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License
[Apache](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

Adding "Why does this exist?" section to README

README.md, after:

# dynamodb-fifo-lock-client

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/johnsabath/dynamodb-fifo-lock-client/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=LCDUYI0ISB)](https://codecov.io/gh/johnsabath/dynamodb-fifo-lock-client)

### Status: Experimental

AWS DynamoDB distributed locking client with fencing tokens and FIFO acquisition queuing.

Inspired by:
- [AWS Blog Post: Building Distributed Locks with the DynamoDB Lock Client](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/building-distributed-locks-with-the-dynamodb-lock-client/)
- [Formidable Labs: Distributed Locking](https://formidable.com/blog/2020/distributed-locking/)

## Why does this exist?

It all started when I began experimenting with AWS CloudFormation custom resources provisioned by lambda functions.  One of those custom resources was wanting to reserve a unique name, which introduced a possible race condition as multiple deployments for the same name could happen at the same time.

This library resolves those race conditions by writing atomically incremented fencing tokens into DynamoDB.  It also provides FIFO queuing for lock acquisitions rather than a naive "acquire the lock if no one else has it" approach.  This avoids situations where an actor gets unlucky and is unable to acquire the lock because other actors consistently checked earlier than they did.

## Usage

### Setup
```javascript
import { DynamoDbLockClient } from "dynamodb-fifo-lock-client";
import * as DynamoDbClient from "aws-sdk/clients/dynamodb";

const dynamo = new DynamoDbClient();
const dynamoLockClient = new DynamoDbLockClient(dynamo, "my-dynamo-table-name");
```

### Options
```javascript
const lockOptions = {
  // Arbitrary string identifier
  lockId: "my-lock-identifier",

  // If we acquire the lock, how long does the lease last before expiring?
  // Leases are automatically extended by heartbeats.
  leaseDurationMs: 30000,

  // If we haven't acquired the lock by this point, raise LockAcquisitionTimeout.
  // Optional: defaults to leaseDurationMs
  acquireTimeoutMs: 30000,

  // How often we should reattempt a lock acquisition if it's being held by someone else
  // Optional: defaults to leaseDurationMs / 2
  acquireRetryIntervalMs: 15000,

  // How often heartbeats should be sent to extend the lease on the lock once its been acquired
  // Optional: defaults to leaseDurationMs / 4
  heartbeatIntervalMs: 7500, 
}
```

### Synchronous Lock Holding

Lock will be held until the `doWork` method returns.
```typescript
function doWork(): void {
  syncWork();
}

await dynamoLockClient.executeWithLock(lockOptions, doWork);
```

### Asynchronous Lock Holding

Lock will be held until the Promise returned by `doAsyncWork` resolves or rejects.
```typescript
async function doAsyncWork(): Promise<void> {
  await asyncWork();
}

await dynamoLockClient.executeWithLock(lockOptions, doAsyncWork);
```

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License
[Apache](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
